---
layout: single
title:  "The Need for Protest"
date:   2017-01-30 00:00:00
---

For the last week we have heard—and for the next several years we will continue
to hear—continued calls to unify behind this presidency. We will hear that we
need to respect the office of President of the United States. We will hear
"Yes, he is your president." And yes, we should unify with the President of the
United States, who should be our president.

In only eight days we have seen that unity is not something that will be
achieved soon, and that is rightfully so. President Trump's inauguration
address was one of the most divisive in American history. In only eight days,
we have seen an unprecedented, potentially illegal ban on immigration from
seven countries that is correctly being referred to as a "Muslim ban"; we have
seen the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff removed from the Primary
Committee of the National Security Council, to be replaced by Steve Bannon, the
head of Breitbart News and Counselor to the President; we have seen the Global
Gag Rule reinstated, potentially endangering the lives of women across the
world; we have seen the beginning of the repeal of the Affordable Care Act,
without a plan to replace.

Since the inauguration, we have seen two major protest events take place across
the nation (and the world) opposing the Trump Administration's policies. The
Women's March had millions of people come out and many of the demonstrations
were so large that the actual physical act of marching couldn't take place. On
Saturday evening and all of Sunday, protests took place in city squares (such
as Court Square in Harrisonburg, VA) and airports across the nation. Protests
are being planned to call on Trump to release his tax returns, to demand action
on and recognition of climate change, and more.

I know most people don't like talking about politics. It sucks. My plan was to
give up on it after the election. Since then (particularly in the last week), I
have realized that if I am able to make the choice to stay silent and if I am
lucky enough to not be forced to speak out against the injustice many in our
country are facing, then it would be irresponsible for me to not speak out.
It's terrifying. Who knows the repercussions of speaking out against this
administration—from friends, from family, from coworkers, or from somewhere
else? Even more terrifying, though, are the consequences of not speaking out.

We must speak out. We must stand up. We must rise. For it is the fundamental
responsibility of the citizens of a republic to state their grievances when
their elected representatives no longer represent them. It is the
responsibility of the citizens of a republic to speak up for those who cannot.
It is the responsibility of citizens of a republic to exercise their rights
when the prospect of losing their rights is near.

So do not tell me to unify. Do not tell me to quiet down. Do not tell me to
accept this. We have an administration ignoring court orders, ignoring the
rights of its people, and ignoring decency. I will not settle for this. I
respect the office of President of the United States and I expect the man who
holds that office to do the same.

>“Give me your tired, your poor,

>Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,

>The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.

>Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me:

>I lift my lamp beside the golden door.”

>-Emma Lazarus

